Add AMASS Dataset Loader (#76)
DLR-RM/BlenderProc: examples/amass_human_poses/README.md

# AMASS Dataset
<p align="center">
<img src="rendering.png" alt="Front readme image" width=400>
</p>

AMASS (Archive of Motion Capture as Surface Shapes) is a large database of human motion unifying different optical marker-based motion capture datasets by representing them within a common framework and parameterization. AMASS is readily useful for generating training data for deep learning.

## Get The Dataset
As you are required to agree to the Use Of Terms for this dataset, we can not provide a download script.

However, we will give you a step by step explanation on how to get access.

> 1. Visit the following websites, sign up as user after you agree to the terms of use.

Reviewer: Do you need to sign in on each of those pages individually or once for all of them? This is a bit unclear here.

Author: yes, on each one of them. The first website is for dataset access and the next two are for the parametric model which generates the mesh file from data

Reviewer: Did you change this also in the README?

	1. `https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/`
	2. `https://mano.is.tue.mpg.de/`
	3. `https://smpl.is.tue.mpg.de/`

> 2. wait till receive the confirmation vie e-mail, once you confirm your account you can access download sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Wait till you receive the confirmation vie e-mail, once you confirm your account you can access the download sections.
```

3. download the following files which represent the body models and extract them inside folder `resources/AMASS/body_models`
	1. from `https://smpl.is.tue.mpg.de/downloads` download the following file

	<img src="instructions_screenshots/smpl_model.png" width=350> 
	
	2. from `https://mano.is.tue.mpg.de/downloads`download the following file 

	<img src="instructions_screenshots/dmpl_model.png" width=350> 
	

> 5. explore the collection of mation capture dataset that are supported by AMASS and choose the motion capture dataset and motion sequence that you want to generate a pose from. for now, we only provide support for CMU motion capture dataset *(we're planning to support the rest of the datasets in the near future)*, so you have to choose a pose from the variaty of poses that could be extracted from this dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Explore the collection of motion capture dataset that are supported by AMASS and choose the motion capture dataset and motion sequence that you want to generate a pose from. For now, we only provide support for CMU motion capture dataset *(we're planning to support the rest of the datasets in the near future)*, so you have to choose a pose from the variety of poses that could be extracted from this dataset.
```

> 	1. for example, after exploring different motion sequences in CMU mocap dataset, we are interested in generating a body pose represents a person kicks a ball. (you can expore all motion sequences categories for CMU dataset through dataset website `http://mocap.cs.cmu.edu/search.php?subjectnumber=%&motion=%`. go to website and select all motion tab to see differnt motions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	1. For example, after exploring different motion sequences in CMU mocap dataset, we are now interested in generating a body pose, where a person kicks a ball. (You can explore all motion sequences categories for CMU dataset through the dataset website `http://mocap.cs.cmu.edu/search.php?subjectnumber=%&motion=%`. Go to the website and select all motion tab to see different motions)
```

> 	2. from differnet motion categories there, we are interested in kick soccer ball category (note it is listed as subject # 10, we need this number among other identifiers to identify the pose we are interested in.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	2. From the different motion categories available there, we are interested in the "kick soccer ball" category (note it is listed as subject # 10, we need this number among other identifiers to identify the pose.)
```

> 6. From AMASS download page `https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/dataset`, many differnt motion capture dataset are listed, choose the one you are interested to generate a pose from and download Body data, for example we choose CMU motion capture dataset to download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. On the AMASS download page `https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/dataset` many different motion capture dataset are listed, choose the one you are interested in to generate a pose from and download the body data. For example, we choose here the CMU motion capture dataset to download.
```

	<img src="instructions_screenshots/mocap_dataset_download.png"> 

> 	download the dataset and extract it under `resources/AMASS` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Download the dataset and extract it under the `resources/AMASS` folder.
```

## Usage
Execute in the BlenderProc main directory:

```
python run.py examples/amass_human_poses/config.yaml resources/AMASS examples/amass_human_poses/output
```

> * `examples/amass_human_poses/config.yaml`: path to the configuration file with pipeline configuration.

Reviewer: The other arguments should be explained here as well.

Reviewer: They are still missing?

## Visualization

In the output folder you will find multiple `.hdf5` files. These can be visualized with the script:

```
python scripts/visHdf5Files.py examples/amass_human_poses/output/*.hdf5
```

## Steps

> * AMASSLoader first check the taxonomy.json file for the currently supported datasets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AMASSLoader first checks the taxonomy.json file for the currently supported datasets
```

> * loads the body parameters for the selected pose from dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Loads the body parameters for the selected pose from dataset
```

> * Loads the parametric body model from the downloader body models

Reviewer: > the downloader body models

What is the downloader body models? Do you mean the downloaded body models?

Author: Sorry, it is a typo. I mean downloaded body models

> * Loads the parametric body model from the downloader body models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Loads the parametric body model from the downloaded body models
```

> * feed the the pose paramters inside the parametric model and generate a mesh equivalent to the selected pose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Feed the the pose parameters inside the parametric model and generate a mesh equivalent to the selected pose
```

> * Adds cameras to the scene: `camera.Front3DCameraSampler`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds cameras to the scene: `camera.CameraSampler`
```

> * Renders rgb, normals: `renderer.RgbRenderer` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Renders rgb, normals and distance: `renderer.RgbRenderer` module.
```

* Writes the output to .hdf5 containers: `writer.Hdf5Writer` module.

## Config file

### AMASSLoader

```yaml
{
  "module": "loader.AMASSLoader",
  "config": {
    "data_path": "<args:0>",
    "sub_dataset_id": "CMU",
    "body_model_gender": "male",
    "subject_id": "10",
    "sequence_id": "1",
    "frame_id": "600",
    "cf_set_shading": "SMOOTH"
  },
      
}
```

> * `sub_dataset_id `: one of the motion capture dataset included inside AMASS dataset, the name is exectally equivalent to the names mentioned in the downlaod page of AMASS Dataset `https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/dataset` **Note: only CMU motion capture dataset is currently supported by AMASSLoader module**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sub_dataset_id `: one of the motion capture datasets included inside the AMASS dataset, the name is exactly equivalent to the names mentioned in the download page of the AMASS dataset [https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/dataset](https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/dataset) **Note: only the CMU motion capture dataset is currently supported by the AMASSLoader module**
```

> * `body_model_gender `: select gender of the model that will represent the selected pose. available options are: `[male, female, neutral]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `body_model_gender `: select gender of the model that will represent the selected pose. Available options are: `[male, female, neutral]`
```

> * `subject_id `: represents the category of the motion, which type of motion the pose will be extracted from. refer to every motion capture dataset included in AMASS dataset to see the set of supported motion categerios. for CMU dataset, you can have a look on the different supported motion categories over their website `http://mocap.cs.cmu.edu/search.php?subjectnumber=%&motion=%` and configure the number equivalent to category id. *for this example, we are interested in kick soccer ball category, so we chose the subject_id to be equal 10*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `subject_id `: represents the category of the motion, which type of motion the pose will be extracted from. This refers to every motion capture dataset included in AMASS dataset to see the set of supported motion categories. For the CMU dataset, you can have a look on the different supported motion categories on their website [http://mocap.cs.cmu.edu/search.php?subjectnumber=%&motion=%](http://mocap.cs.cmu.edu/search.php?subjectnumber=%&motion=%) and configure the number equivalent to the category id. *For this example, we are interested in the "kick soccer ball" category, so we chose the subject_id to be `10`.*
```

> * `sequence_id`: every categories have more than one sequence of people performing the same motion using differnt scenarios. Hint: you can watch the videos from the original dataset website to select a a specific sequence or you can just leave the default value which is equal to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sequence_id`: every category has more than one sequence of people performing the same motion using different scenarios. Hint: You can watch the videos on the original dataset website to select a a specific sequence or you can just leave the default value which is `1`.
```

> * `frame_id`: which frame in the sequence contains the represented pose. this parameter id dependent on the length of the sequence and no of fps in which the motion is recorded. Usually you can obtain the length of the sequence and fps values from dataset website or leave it blank and the loader will choose a random pose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `frame_id`: which frame in the sequence contains the represented pose. This parameter id dependents on the length of the sequence and the fps in which the motion is recorded. Usually you can obtain the length of the sequence and fps values from the dataset website or leave it blank and the loader will choose a random pose.
```

# AMASS Dataset
<p align="center">
<img src="rendering.png" alt="Front readme image" width=400>
</p>

AMASS (Archive of Motion Capture as Surface Shapes) is a large database of human motion unifying different optical marker-based motion capture datasets by representing them within a common framework and parameterization. AMASS is readily useful for generating training data for deep learning.

## Get The Dataset
As you are required to agree to the Use Of Terms for this dataset, we can not provide a download script.

However, we will give you a step by step explanation on how to get access.

> 1. Visit the following websites, sign up as user after you agree to the terms of use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Visit the following websites and sign up as user after you agree to the terms of use on all of them separately. The first corresponds to the dataset and the other two for the parametric model to generate the mesh.
```
